README.md, before:

# Lab 01 – Product architecture, tech roles, & your skills

Questions:
- Do you know what skills are needed to build software projects? 
- Have you thought about which tech role you want to pursue as your career?

In this lab, we will explore three things:
1. How real software products may be structured;
2. What kind of engineers may build and operate them;
3. How your skills compare to market demands.

Along the way, you'll practice using Git and GitHub — essential tools for collaboration between developers.

## Table of contents

- [Learning outcomes](#learning-outcomes)
- [Tasks overview](#tasks-overview)
- [Tasks](#tasks)

## Learning outcomes

By the end of this lab, you should be able to:

- Use `GitHub` to structure your work and collaborate with peers (issues, branches, pull requests, and reviews).
- Explain the basic architecture of a real-world digital product in terms of components, data flow, deployment, and tech roles.
- Reflect on your career in tech, examine your current skillset, and plan for the future.

After this lab, you should be able to say: 

> I can use git and github, I understand how products are built, and I know what I could learn to grow as an engineer.

## Tasks overview

```
□ Setup   — fork repo, find a partner
□ Task 0  — practice git workflow
□ Task 1  — analyze a product's architecture
□ Task 2  — map components to tech roles
□ Task 3  — compare your skills to market demands
```

In this lab, we will simulate some of the real-life engineering practices:

- Communicate via issues/PRs;
- Check your work against acceptance criteria;
- Write clear commit messages.
### Pair work and TA

You'll work with a partner throughout this lab. You complete tasks individually, but review each other's work via pull requests.

As your proceed with the lab, show your progress to the TA. 

## Tasks

For all tasks, we follow the same [git workflow procedure](./lab/tasks/required/procedure.md). 
Task 0 allows you to practice it.

### Setup (~30 min)

First complete the [lab setup](./lab/setup.md).

### Required tasks (~2 hours)

0. [Practice the git workflow](./lab/tasks/required/task-0.md#practice-the-git-workflow) (~15 min)
1. [Choose a product and study its architecture](./lab/tasks/required/task-1.md#choose-a-product-and-study-its-architecture) (~30 min)
2. [Study tech roles involved in the chosen product](./lab/tasks/required/task-2.md#study-tech-roles-involved-in-the-chosen-product) (~30 min)
3. [Compare your tech skills with the market needs](./lab/tasks/required/task-3.md#compare-your-tech-skills-with-the-market-needs) (~30 min)

### Optional tasks

Complete all optional tasks to leave up to 1 hour early (lab is 3 hours):

1. [Resolve a merge conflict](./lab/tasks/optional/task-1.md#resolve-a-merge-conflict).
2. [Add a CI check](./lab/tasks/optional/task-2.md#add-a-ci-check)
3. [Create a release](./lab/tasks/optional/task-3.md#create-a-release)
4. [Plan skill development](./lab/tasks/optional/task-4.md#plan-skill-development)

### Homework

- Read this [tutorial](https://hackmd.io/@aabounegm/SWP-git) to learn about `Git`, `Github`, and `Git` workflows.
- Practice on [Learn Git Branching](https://learngitbranching.js.org/) (focus on merge/rebase and conflicts).
- Read about [`GitHub flow`](https://docs.github.com/en/get-started/using-github/github-flow).
- (Optional) Learn about [`Conventional Commits`](https://www.conventionalcommits.org/en/v1.0.0/) for commit message formatting.
- (Optional) [Learn more](./lab/appendix/vs-code.md) about `VS Code`.

Commit message:

docs(readme): consolidate git resources into Additional Resources section

README.md, after:

# Lab 01 – Product architecture, tech roles, & your skills

Questions:
- Do you know what skills are needed to build software projects? 
- Have you thought about which tech role you want to pursue as your career?

In this lab, we will explore three things:
1. How real software products may be structured;
2. What kind of engineers may build and operate them;
3. How your skills compare to market demands.

Along the way, you'll practice using Git and GitHub — essential tools for collaboration between developers.

## Table of contents

- [Learning outcomes](#learning-outcomes)
- [Tasks overview](#tasks-overview)
- [Tasks](#tasks)

## Learning outcomes

By the end of this lab, you should be able to:

- Use `GitHub` to structure your work and collaborate with peers (issues, branches, pull requests, and reviews).
- Explain the basic architecture of a real-world digital product in terms of components, data flow, deployment, and tech roles.
- Reflect on your career in tech, examine your current skillset, and plan for the future.

After this lab, you should be able to say: 

> I can use git and github, I understand how products are built, and I know what I could learn to grow as an engineer.

## Tasks overview

```
□ Setup   — fork repo, find a partner
□ Task 0  — practice git workflow
□ Task 1  — analyze a product's architecture
□ Task 2  — map components to tech roles
□ Task 3  — compare your skills to market demands
```

In this lab, we will simulate some of the real-life engineering practices:

- Communicate via issues/PRs;
- Check your work against acceptance criteria;
- Write clear commit messages.
### Pair work and TA

You'll work with a partner throughout this lab. You complete tasks individually, but review each other's work via pull requests.

As your proceed with the lab, show your progress to the TA. 

## Tasks

For all tasks, we follow the same [git workflow procedure](./lab/tasks/required/procedure.md). 
Task 0 allows you to practice it.

### Setup (~30 min)

First complete the [lab setup](./lab/setup.md).

### Required tasks (~2 hours)

0. [Practice the git workflow](./lab/tasks/required/task-0.md#practice-the-git-workflow) (~15 min)
1. [Choose a product and study its architecture](./lab/tasks/required/task-1.md#choose-a-product-and-study-its-architecture) (~30 min)
2. [Study tech roles involved in the chosen product](./lab/tasks/required/task-2.md#study-tech-roles-involved-in-the-chosen-product) (~30 min)
3. [Compare your tech skills with the market needs](./lab/tasks/required/task-3.md#compare-your-tech-skills-with-the-market-needs) (~30 min)

### Optional tasks

Complete all optional tasks to leave up to 1 hour early (lab is 3 hours):

1. [Resolve a merge conflict](./lab/tasks/optional/task-1.md#resolve-a-merge-conflict).
2. [Add a CI check](./lab/tasks/optional/task-2.md#add-a-ci-check)
3. [Create a release](./lab/tasks/optional/task-3.md#create-a-release)
4. [Plan skill development](./lab/tasks/optional/task-4.md#plan-skill-development)

### Additional Resources on Git
- Read this [tutorial](https://hackmd.io/@aabounegm/SWP-git) to learn about `Git`, `Github`, and `Git` workflows.
- Short videos to build your mental model of how Git works:
	- [Git Explained in 100 Seconds](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=hwP7WQkmECE)
	- [What is Git? Explained in 2 Minutes!](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=2ReR1YJrNOM)
	- [A brief introduction to Git for beginners](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=r8jQ9hVA2qs)
	- [How Git Works: Explained in 4 Minutes](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=e9lnsKot_SQ)
	- [Git MERGE vs REBASE: Everything You Need to Know](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=0chZFIZLR_0)
- Practice on [Learn Git Branching](https://learngitbranching.js.org/) (focus on merge/rebase and conflicts).
- Read about [`GitHub flow`](https://docs.github.com/en/get-started/using-github/github-flow).
- Learn about [`Conventional Commits`](https://www.conventionalcommits.org/en/v1.0.0/) for commit message formatting.
